---
layout: post
title: "Homebrew"
description: ""
category: command line fu 
tags: [sys admin, scripting, shell]
---
{% include JB/setup %}
So I have already walked through one of the scripts that I currently have posted on my github but I have recently decided to start a repo for my scripts. This way I can share them as well as get to them whenever I want. As of right now I only have three scripts to share but hopefully it will grow over time with my own as well as others I find useful.

## [recdns.sh] (https://github.com/pasqualedagostino/homebrew/blob/master/recdns.sh)
Recursive DNS servers are bad because they allow attackers to make multiple lookups to a victim system. With a enough vulnerable systems the attacker can DoS the victim system. This script allows you to scan a subnet and determine if any hosts are vulnerable to these recursive lookups.

{% highlight bash  %}
$ curl -L https://raw.github.com/pasqualedagostino/homebrew/master/recdns.sh > recdns.sh
$ chmod 4755 recdns.sh && chown root recdns.sh
{% endhighlight %}
#### Notes
Make sure you set correct permissions on the script, it needs root to run a UDP scan and this will cause the nmap output to belong to root. Therefore the script needs to owned by root with the sticky bit set. Make sure you don't allow write to this file otherwise a user could modify the script and run as root.

## [sentinel.sh] (https://github.com/pasqualedagostino/homebrew/blob/master/sentinel.sh)
This script is pretty useful for someone that needs to check in on a host but it is currently offline. Simply feed the script the IP address or hostname, set a time interval to check, an email address and the system will email you once the host is back online.

{% highlight bash  %}
$ curl -L https://raw.github.com/pasqualedagostino/homebrew/master/sentinel.sh > sentinel.sh
{% endhighlight %}
#### Notes
If the script just quits, it is due to a bad hostname. Redirect stderr to see the issue, I didn't want info going to stdout if the script was going to be running in the background.

## [tds.sh] (https://github.com/pasqualedagostino/homebrew/blob/master/tds.sh)
As descibed in my previous post this script can be useful if your session gets locked up and you just want to clear all the current processes associated with your username. All you have to do is run the script remotely and it should free up the system.

{% highlight bash  %}
$ curl -L https://raw.github.com/pasqualedagostino/homebrew/master/tds.sh > tds.sh
{% endhighlight %}
#### Notes
Login locally or remotely and run the script as the user that you want to clean up. The script will keep track of any processes that survive this script so you can review it later if need be.
