---
layout: post
title: "SSH Over 443"
description: ""
category: network security
tags: [network security, watchlist]
---
{% include JB/setup %}
Recently I had a discussion with one of our Senior Analysts about a signature in our IDS that fires when an inbound connection contains an SSH banner. I thought it was interesting that we cared for a signature like this but I have become rather curious about some of the events it generates. The reason that I questioned it at first is because I thought there would be a lot of false positives. There have been some but the more and more you look at some of the traffic from these events, the fishier it looks.

{% highlight bash %}
alert tcp $EXTERNAL_NET 443 -> $HOME_NET any (sid:1000146; gid:1; flow:established,from_server; content:"SSH-"; depth:4; msg:"ET POLICY SSH banner detected on TCP 443 likely proxy evasion"; classtype:misc-activity; rev:1; )
{% endhighlight %}

This signature basically creates an alert for any external TCP traffic on 443 inbound to the internal network with any destination port. The signature also needs to match in the sense that it needs to be a connection from the server and contain “SSH-“ in the contents.

The reason I am bringing this up today is that there is a subnet in Ukraine ( 37.9.53.0/24 ) that some hosts have been beaconing out to. However I haven't been able to find anything related to this but I am almost positive it is malicious. My reasoning right now is the hosts that have been connecting to this server really have no reason to be. The location of the subnet itself is rather interesting and the fact that they are trying to hide the traffic over HTTPS makes it even stranger. Hopefully I will be able to look into this more but it gave me the idea to start a watchlist. Hopefully it will grow into my own little malware pattern analysis but for now I'll stick to tagging.

### Update 9/11/2013
I recieved a tip from a security mailing list today that this could be data exfiltration malware using encrypted transfer over 443/tcp. Some of the active IPs seen are listed below but it is probably okay to block that subnet.

37.9.53.12

37.9.53.40

37.9.53.97

37.9.53.106

37.9.53.107
